Nieves Response:

Nieves et a. use the random forest machine learning method to predict what value globally?  Describe in detail how random forest works.  What is a dasymmetric population allocation? Which geospatial covariates proved to be the most important when predicting global values of where humans reside?

The paper describes how Nieves et al use a random forrest model to predict population desnity globally. Random forrest models are a non-linear "ensemble method" that breaks data sets and covariates into multiple decision trees. Weaker predictive trees are combined with stronger predicitve trees to move the algorithm torwards more accurate predictions. The "dasymetric" allocation method described references the use of the population density predictors, to then dissagregate data from national or larger administrative census data onto smaller grid cells. In other words, if you have a strong understanding of predicative variables for the density of a population in a country, and you have a fairly accurate national census, the national census population data can be spread out onto a higher resolution predicative map using your density variables/ models. The paper specifically states that variables related to  "built/urban areas" and "climatic/environmental" were the most important variables. The urban land use variable was not a surprise to the authors, as it is common sensical to determein density based on urban land coverage. The climatic variable however, was a surprise. The authors state that slope, and elevation are important predictors of settlement. High population density areas tend to be on lower elevation, relativley flat areas near river deltas, oceanfronts and resource rich areas. 

This was a great reading and helped elucidate what is meant by "machine learning" and population modeling. 
